All right, guys.
So we're going to start our next project, which is going to be a timeline.
And some of you guys may have seen something like this before.
It's just a timeline that has different years.
It could be any type of data.
This happens to be just web development knowledge.
And when I actually learned this stuff, so you can see it starts in 2007 with HTML and CSS, then we
go to JavaScript and jQuery, PHP and WordPress and notice that we have these coming in from the sides,
just animating in, sliding in.
Now we're going to have to add a little bit of JavaScript at the end if we want to have that type of
effect, because only in JavaScript can we tell where we are in the viewport and stuff like that.
You can't do that with just pure CSS.
Also, when the page loads they'll come in from the side.
But as far as the whole layout here, we're going to do that first and we're just going to use HTML
and CSS for that.
All right.
So we'll try to do the JavaScript that at the very end.
So I have a empty folder called Knowledge Resume and we're just going to need to files for now.
So let's create index HTML and let's create style CSS.
I'm just going to put the CSS right in the root and let's let's close up the sidebar and go into our
HTML and generate our boilerplate.
And for the title we'll just say knowledge timeline and let's link our style sheet.
So styled CSS and we're also going to be using font.
Awesome.
So let's grab that real quick.
So font awesome dot com, we'll click the start using free and then grab the link here, paste that
right in.
All right.
And then down in the body we're going to have a header and we'll give this an ID of just main dash header
and we're going to have in here a container class and then let's put an H one and we're going to have
that the brain icon.
So I the class of face for font.
Awesome.
And then a dash brain that will give us that icon.
And then we just want to put the text knowledge resume and you can change up this if you want if you
want to use different data and make it something completely different, that's, that's absolutely fine.
So let's put in an H three underneath and we just want to put the user's name, but I want to put an
icon as well so far as F a dash user.
And then next to that icon I'll put my name, but feel free to put your own.
And if we save this and open it up, we're going to see this.
So now under the header, we just want a section and we're going to give this an ID of timeline.
And like I said, all this is going to be is an unordered list.
So we're going to do a UL and then each line is just going to have a DIV and then it's going to have
an H three with the year and the technology.
I also want to put a Chevron icon.
So we're going to do phase F a dash.
Chevron dash.
Right.
And then we'll put a year so let's say 2007 and I'll say H, HTML and CSS and then underneath that I'll
do a paragraph with let's say 20 words, so I'll save that and it should look like this.
Now the what's cool about this project is the HTML is very simple.
It's just, it's just list items exactly like this.
There's no nothing's different.
They're all the exact same.
They just have different titles.
So in that case, I'm going to just paste the rest in because I don't want to just type out the same
thing over and over just with different titles.
So let me just go right under this ly and paste these in and save.
And basically if you want to pause the video, if you want to do exactly what I'm doing as far as the
text and the content, just change the titles.
It's the same as the the first one we did.
They're just different titles, different years.
Now I am going to add just some core styling in this video.
So we are going to use some variables.
So I'm going to have a root scope and I want a primary color and we're going to set that to a blue.
They're both going to be shades of blue.
So let's do 4 to 5 and we want b84.
So that's going to be our primary and then our secondary color is going to be hexadecimal and it's going
to be five, b, seven, b, b four.
So that will be our secondary color.
And then I'm just going to also set a max width and we'll set that to 1100 pixels.
So that's all I'm going to do for variables.
And again, if, if you guys find something that you think should.
Be put in a variable for easy access or whatever.
Feel free to do so.
And then I'm just going to add a reset.
So let's do margin zero, padding zero and box sizing for the box and then for the body.
Let's do a font.
Let's put everything in just the font tag.
So I'm going to do a normal font way.
Let's do one REM, let's do 1.5 line height and let's do aerial font sans serif.
So just a shortcut for the font and then the background for the body is going to be the primary color.
So let's grab that.
Okay.
And then the color is going to be white and I'm going to add an overflow.
I don't know if I showed you guys this, so I did.
I've done overflow hidden, which means that there's not going to be any scroll bars.
Also, it's going to include all the content.
It's not going to like stop above the content or whatever.
But we can also do overflow dash X and dash y and it just pertains to that access.
So I don't want to have any type of scroll bars that go horizontal.
So I'm going to set this to hidden.
All right.
And then I'm just going to add padding bottom of 50 pixels just to have a little bit of room on the
bottom.
So we'll save that and it's going to look like this.
So let's take care of the header real quick.
We have an ID of main header and that background is going to be the secondary color.
And let's add padding.
So we'll say top and bottom for REM.
And if we save that, good, now it has a container as well.
So let's say container.
Let's do a max width.
And we created a variable for that.
So max width is going to be the the width of the the UI and then or the header and then margin.
We want to do zero, top and bottom and auto left and right, push it to the middle and let's do text
align center and save that good.
And the H one, I want to be a little bigger.
So let's say h ones we want.
Let's do font size.
We'll do 2.3 rems.
And that's pretty much it.
Everything else that we're going to do is going to have to do with the timeline.
So we're going to stop the video here and we'll continue with the timeline CSIS in the next one.